---
title: "Lab 09"
author: "Constantine Macris"
subtitle: "Logging in the Cloud"
date: "07APR2020"
subject: "Logging in the Cloud"
titlepage: true
titlepage-color: "3C9F53"
titlepage-text-color: "FFFFFF"
titlepage-rule-color: "FFFFFF"
titlepage-rule-height: 2
book: true
classoption: oneside
code-block-font-size: \scriptsize
top-level-division: chapter
---

# Lab 09 Logging in the cloud

## Learning Outcomes

* Launch an example Google App Engine application to generate logs.
* Use Cloud Logging console to interact with the logs generated by the application.
* Create log-based Cloud Monitoring metrics.
* Use Cloud Logging to dive deep into Audit Logging.
* Create an Export of logs into Google BigQuery.

## Definitions

* GCP -- Google Cloud Platform (aka Google Cloud)
* K8S -- Kubernetes (K********S)

## Introduction

Welcome to Lab 09. As we improvise adapt and overcome we are taking a trip back to our friendly QuikLabs environment for a practical on gathering and viewing logs in a cloud platform. As we know from prior QuikLabs, these labs are very cookie cutter, you can rush through or go slowly to play around and understand the tools and environment. Try to do the latter. This should have no impact on your compute resources which is the main benefit to this platform. A lot of the technology being used is going to be the direction many organizations, including the DHS/USCG will eventually be going. The exact tools will change but the concepts will remain the same. This lab will before for two weeks because it is rated at 5+ hours. Again, please take your time and exercise learning outside the platform through conversation in Slack and independent research.

## Lab

### Quicklab Login and Setup

1) Create an account from the email you got yesterday from QuickLabs! Got to [QuickLabs](https://www.qwiklabs.com/) login. If you are having trouble, please reach out on Slack.
2) Once logged in you should see a search bar up on the top of the screen enter the following: **Stackdriver Logging** and search.
3) Select the training titled **Stackdriver Logging**
4) Once selected you should have the opportunity to **Enroll in this Quest** on the right of the screen, click that button which will bring you to the first of 5 sections.
5) You will automatically be brought to the first screen for **GSP610**. If you are not here, please reach out for assistance.
6) Once in the first module of the **READ THE ENTIRE INSTRUCTIONS FIRST** before clicking the "Start Lab" button in the top left.

STOP and do not click the green "Start Lab" button until you have finished reading the entire lab first. You will run out of time if you don't!!! You have been warned.

7) When you have read the full instructions for the lab you can started the one hour timed lab by clicking the button at the top left. Follow the lab instructions and work through the lab.
8) Upon completion of the lab please move on to the next module.

### Continue to the Following Modules

1) After finishing the first lab continue on to **Using BigQuery and Stackdriver to Analyze BigQuery Usage** which is **GSP617**
2) Follow the prior sections #6-8 above (eg. read instructions, complete lab module and get score recorded)
3) Please check the time and only move on to the next module if you have enough time to complete. If you do not complete within the time given, you will need to redo all your work in that module. It is OK if you run out of time, simply read the instructions and do the lab over the weekend for homework.
3) After finishing the second lab continue on to **Logging with Stackdriver on Kubernetes Engine** which is **GSP483**
4) Follow the prior sections #6-8 above (eg. read instructions, complete lab module and get score recorded).
5) After finishing the third lab continue on to **Monitoring and Logging for Cloud Functions** which is **GSP092**
6) Follow the prior sections #6-8 above (eg. read instructions, complete lab module and get score recorded).
7) After finishing the third lab continue on to **Creating and Alerting on Logs-based Metrics** which is **GSP091**
8) Follow the prior sections #6-8 above (eg. read instructions, complete lab module and get score recorded).

## Report

The report will be based on completion measured by the lab environment, if you have trouble (like we have had in the past) with recording progress please reach out. You will also be required to engage in conversation on Slack regarding what you have learned, questions you have, and following through on tasks we may want to explore. The material learned will be testable so please take your time and learn as much about the technologies in the lab and on your own when you encounter something you do not understand.
